What are the most important things
a junior should be expected to know to
land their first job?
>> Well, I believe for that question,
I will refer you to the entire
wealth of interview-related content and
courses that there are.
>> We have a beginner learning path.
>> A learning path, yes, exactly.
And isn't there a course
about interviewing?
>> There is, we also have a free getting
a job course by Jerome Hardaway.
>> Right.
>> So yeah,
take a look at that on Frontend Masters,
it's completely free.
>> Yeah.
>> We do have a lot of great
free beginner resources.
>> Definitely, but I will say this,
as someone who has been on both sides of
the hiring table as a junior developer and
as someone interviewing junior
developers and looking for them.
In general, when people are hiring
a junior developer, and by people,
I mean companies, which apparently in
the United States are also people.
But anyway, [LAUGH] the thing that
folks are hiring a junior developer for
is not expertise, right?
For that,
you would be looking for someone,
if you really need someone who just wrote
the book on some very specific thing,
that's not the role that a junior
dev is gonna be applying for.
Instead, what they're looking for
are people who are willing
to learn new concepts,
willing to take guidance from others,
willing to work themselves on
solving problems that they
might have before going and
asking somebody else for help.
So in my experience, sure, there might
be certain things where they say,
it's nice if you have some experience
with X,Y, Z tool and JavaScript,
some particular framework that they
use on their product, what have you.
But for junior level, there is a real,
real value to being able
to ask good questions,
which Julia Evans has a fabulous blog
post about asking good questions.
So yeah, Julia Evans, ask good questions,
ought to do it in your
search engine of choice and
I think it's jvns.ca is your site but
don't quote me on that.
Anyway, basically, for example, being
able to say, okay, I have understood that
this is the case and I have
understood that that is the case, but
I'm confused about this thing and
I tried debugging it with this,
this, and this, and
I still don't know what that means.
So could you please help me?
So a team that has some senior
engineer's a lot of experience, but
not a lot of time to mentor junior devs
is going to want people like that who
are able to pick up new skills as they go.
They're able to help get themselves
unstuck, and then they're able to go and
ask for help when they need it, and
not just be stuck and not move forward.
So I would say, more than worrying about,
have I learned the right frameworks and
things like that?
Learning on those higher level
kind of core scale things about
communicating what you're
thinking about a problem,
communicating what you have
struggled with or have learned and
ideas that you have and
things that you're interested in learning.
All of that is also super valuable,
especially when you're at that
junior dev job search level.
So don't undervalue those type of things,
I would say.
>> Trade offs for starting your career
at a startup versus a corporation.
>> [LAUGH] Trade offs for starting your
career at a startup versus a corporation.
Well, there's lots, I suppose [LAUGH].
Startups generally tend to be pretty high
intensity environments, not all of them.
But a lot of them are small teams
that are trying to do big things and
are willing to put in super long hours and
weekends and
kind of make it the main
thing in their lives a lot.
So that's a whole, Situation that
you may or may not be in for.
Startups also generally tend to
have maybe not the best salaries,
but a potential large
upside on the equity front.
But the thing is that, most startups
don't become the unicorns, as they say,
worth billions of dollars, [LAUGH] what
have you, so your mileage may vary.
Corporations, in my experience,
having not been a software developer at
very big corporations myself, but
can sometimes be the helpful structure,
especially if you're coming
in at a junior level.
A helpful structure of
a very tightly scoped.
This team works on this small thing and
not so much that everyone is wearing
many hats and trying to do many things
at the same time vibe of a startup.
Which can be a good thing
if it is helpful for
you to kind of focus and
kind of get your foot in the door there.
It can also sometimes feel
a bit constraining to people,
especially once they start to get
a little more developed in their career.
Or if you're the type of person who likes
to do all kinds of different things and
doesn't like to be in a very
specialized role a lot, but
that can also be different.
There are some corporations that have kind
of sub organizations that essentially
function like startups.
So this is all to say it depends, [LAUGH]
I guess, but these days, unfortunately,
the hiring market right now, as at
the time of filming, is pretty rough.
And so I think regardless of whether
the market is good or the market is bad,
regardless of whether it's a startup
that's got a job opening or
a corporation that's got a job opening.
If you look for
the people that you're gonna work with and
are they the kinda people that you're
really excited to learn from and
collaborate with, I think that is
gonna make a bigger difference than
the overarching company structure to
your experience and career growth.
But that's all one random person
on the Internet's opinion, so
[LAUGH] take it with a grain of salt.
So Mohammed works as a language teacher
and is now in the way of shifting career
or mixing careers, and I just wanna
say that is exactly what I did.
So I was an English as a foreign
language teacher, Circa,
I don't know, 2008 to 2013,
something like that.
And during that time,
I started getting interested in code,
I started getting interested
in language learning tools and
language teaching tools, things like
computer assisted language learning.
And that's what opened the doors to me and
got me interested in software.
And so first of all, it is awesome to see
other people going through that shift and
I also know how hard it is and I feel you
and it is a climb, but you can do it.
And then the question is, is it feasible
to create a whole website by myself?
Yes, it is indeed feasible.
And hopefully, through this course,
we have learned some tools for
getting our selfie cam is a whole website.
It is maybe not the most complex website,
it's not a Facebook or
what have you, but it is a whole website
and you'll built it, so great job.
And also, sometimes we find,
I'm trying to recap here that
we rabbit hole on certain questions or
certain things that we find,
and we spend way too much time
writing code that we didn't
know wasn't really the best
way to do it at the time,
and I would say that is just
the way of [LAUGH] things.
So for example,
there is a great resource that I meant to
mention earlier when we
were talking about Git.
Its real name starts with O and
then there's a word that starts
with SH and rhymes with Git,
but there is another version of
the site called dangitgit.com, I think.
It makes a great point.
It's a basically a way to get
yourself out of bad oopses in Git,
so very useful thing.
Also, I believe Julia Evans and
the author of that site who I'm blanking
on right now have a zine about it.
Anyway, it makes the excellent
point point that sometimes you
don't know the thing to put into
your search engine to look for
to solve your problem until you already
know how to solve your problem.
So it's like this catch 22 chicken and
egg situation.
And so sometimes,
as we've seen in JavaScript,
there's eight bajillion
ways to do everything.
So sometimes the way that
gets you moving forward,
whether it's the most optimal way or
something that somebody was
really mean about on the Internet
when you asked question or whatever.
Don't listen to the haters,
shake it off like Taylor, and
keep writing the code that gets you
moving to the next step, I would say.
So may the force be with you.